---
order: 2
title: Campaigns
---
## Ocean Campaigns

## Great Bear Sea Hydrophone Network

This campaign has been set up in order to better understand the acoustic landscape of the Great Bear Sea on the north coast of British Columbia. Although there is currently little acoustic pollution to be found, it cannot be ignored that there has been fourteen new energy projects either proposed or in put into progress for the area which could be devastating for the marine life. Creatures such as humpback whales, killer whales, dolphins, herring, and rockfish would all be affected by this noise pollution which could ultimately destroy the beautiful habitat they preside in if driven away due to human activity. In order to prevent such a tragedy from befalling the Great Bear Sea, Pacific Wild has partnered with the Heiltsuk First Nation and has implemented six remote hydrophone stations to monitor and study the acoustics. The audio from these hydrophones is also available online for anyone to listen to across the world so that everyone can get a better understanding of life in the Great Bear Sea.

## No Tankers

The 'No Tankers' movement has garnered thousands of supporters all throughout B.C., and it finally became loud enough that in May of 2017 the Government of Canada put through legislation to ban oil tankers carrying over 12,500 metric tonnes of crude oil in the Great Bear Sea. However, this legislation comes with a massive loophole which is that tankers carrying less than the 12,500 metric tonnes or other refined petroleum products such as Liquified Natural Gas can still make shipments through the area. The consequences of this loophole are already well known from the sinking of the Nathan E. Stewart tank-barge that sank off the coast of Bella Bella in October of 2016 which affected the local Heiltsuk Nation and the wildlife habitats from the spillage. This brings to light the three big important reasons why tankers should not be allowed to pass through the Great Bear Sea: deadly ship strikes, drowning in sound pollution, and spill devastation.

## Herring

Although just a foraging fish, pacific herring is considered to be one of the most important species on the Pacific coast due to the interactions with a multitide of predators and prey. The herring spawn within inlets or bays when they come in from the open ocean during late winter and a single female can lay up to 20,000 eggs. As a result of this spawning cycle, many different predators such as wolves, bears, birds, sea lions, and humpback whales are given sustenance to survive. Altogether, this natural cycle allows the rich biodiversity of the Great Bear Rainforest and sea to thrive just from this one important foraging fish. Unfortunately, after the usage of industrial-scale reduction fisheries in the early 20th century most of the herring stocks collapsed in the 1960's and the stocks have remained strained ever since. 

Despite the struggles that the pacific herring stocks have encountered there is still hope for the species. First Nations communities are known to have a history of harvesting herring for trade and consumption with a method of only collecting eggs amongst the shore within kelp or hemlock branches. This sustainable method allows the herring to continue to spawn or provide sustenance for local predators within the ecosystem. With Pacific Wild working to protect this species along with the First Nations communities the pacific herring may just thrive once more in the years to come.

## Marine Planning

With the constant threats from industrial shipping, salmon farms, fishing pressure, and climate change looming over the diverse marine life in the Great Bear Rainforest and sea there comes a dire need for planning and protection of the ecosystem. This is where Pacific Wild has stepped in with the First Nations communities and provincial government to work together to help implement the Marine Planning Partnership (MaPP) in order to protect the B.C. coast. Furthermore, there's also talks between the First Nations, the provincial government, and the federal government to design a network of protected marine areas called the Northern Bioregion Marine Protected Areas Network. These engagements with both levels of government are done in hopes to achieve conservation targets for a massive range of habitats and species within. 

The importance of these plans brings to light that human activity is slowly destroying the biodiversity within ecosystems such as the Great Bear Rainforest and sea. However, with plans and designated protection areas in place the ecosystems would then be allowed to recover over time. The biggest fault that unfortunately comes with these plans though is that they offer little to no protection from threats outside of the designated boundaries. Some of these threats include ocean acidification, tanker noise, fishing pressure, amd contamination from toxins. Although there are some other successful tools and ideas that exist to help combat these threats, there is always more room to expand for convservation targets with marine planning and MPAs. 

## Wild Salmon

As one of the most important foundations of the Great Bear ecosystem, wild salmon unfortunately face a multitude of threats from human activity. With our constant logging, road building, and other land changes in the Great Bear there has been drastic effects on the spawning habitats and salmon stocks. This serves as an important reminder that without the yearly salmon runs having enough to sustain a variety of marine mammals and wildlife on land, the biodiversity of the ecosystems will falter without the chance to recover if we don't take action against the harmful practices with fish farms and industrial development. Furthermore, wild salmon has become a key component to British Columbia tourism and local cuisine, so without the proper stocks and protection of the salmon this too will falter in time. 

One of the largest ongoing problems that affects wild salmon and the nearby marine environments are open net pen fish farms. These fish farms pose a constant threat with fish escaping, fish waste pollution, and disease transfers to the wild salmon. In 2012, Justice Bruce Cohen, finalized a $25 million federal judicial inquiry into the sockeye salmon stocks in the Fraser River and their cause of collapse. The result of this inquiry included 75 recommendations that could help the salmon stocks, such as a call for more rigorous scientific investigations on fish health and pathogens within salmon agriculture operations. However, despite these recommendations by Justice Cohen, very few have actually been implemented since indicating there is still more conservation work direly needed for the protection of wild salmon in British Columbia.


## Land Campaigns

## Stop the Trophy Hunt

After lengthy campaigning and many petitions later, the B.C. NDP announced an end to the grizzly trophy hunt in the Great Bear Rainforest, but only after the fall 2017 hunt. This horrific loophole will result in hundreds more grizzly bear deaths for this year and shows that the government will still give preference to trophy hunters despite the massive public outcry against such hunting. Bears specifically are quite vulnerable creatures due to their low birthing rates and are defenseless against human development within their territories which ultimately affects their food supply as we're currently damaging the salmon stocks in British Columbia at a rapid rate. With the trophy hunt still allowed to go on it will deplete the already unstable and unknown populations of grizzlies due to the flawed government science used to estimate the populations. As a result of this flawed estimation hunting quotas are incorrect and bears are actually being overkilled every year as the hunt continues. This unnecessary trophy hunt is opposed by 90% of British Columbians and will only be stopped if people continue to speak up and fight back against the government's decisions on this integral animal within the Great Bear Rainforest and British Columbia. 

## Save B.C. Wolves

The wolves in British Columbia, and specifically the Great Bear Rainforest wolves, are an essential part of the diverse ecosystems that are dependent on multiple factors in order to continue to thrive. The wolves will inhabit all kinds of environments along the coast and the nearby islands as they feed on deer and whatever they can scavenge from the ocean or rivers. Unfortunately, all wolves in B.C. are subject to the flawed Wolf Management Plan which has a focus on faulty estimates of their population growth and does not address just how important wolves are to economical, societal, and ecological needs. 
Once the news of the B.C. Wolf Cull was announced it was met with numerous protests and is viewed as a highly hypocritical and unethical practice due to the reasoning for the cull which was to save the mountain caribou population. However, the mountain caribou population is only suffering due to industrial logging, oil and gas explorations, and recreational snowmobiling in their usual habitats which has put a massive strain on the species, and yet they decided to put the blame fully on the wolves. Furthermore, their inhumane form of euthanasia during the cull by shooting the wolves from a helicopter is a disgusting practice that ensures the animals would suffer even more until they succumbed to their deaths from their wounds. It has even been stated by the Boreal Woodland Caribou Recovery Strategy that a cull on predators should be used as a last resort and there should instead be a focus on habitat protection and restoration. With Pacific Wild and a large portion of B.C. residents against this treatment of our wolves, there is hope that we can eventually stop this needless cull of a beautiful and important animal that must survive so our ecosystems can continue to recover from human destruction.

## Forest Conservation

The establishment of Pacific Wild originally began as a heavy conservation effort for the forests of Vancouver Island and then subsequently became more focused on the Great Bear Rainforest as it suffers from human destruction on a daily basis. Although their hard fought efforts resulted in the Great Bear Rainforest agreements in 2001 and 2009, the protection only extends to one third of the land area. Additionally, an estimate of 70% of the old growth forest must remain intact in order to preserve the wildlife and the rainforest, but 70% of the region still remains open to logging and other commercial development. And despite the agreements in place, logging companies continue to ignore and procrastinate on implementing the Ecosystem-based Management practice which would dtermine what must be left in the forest before deciding how much and where to log. As a result, extensive road building and clear cut logging in the few remaining river valleys in the rainforest have ensured that the region is still in dire need of protection through conservation efforts. In 2015, Pacific Wild began a new project to film and document the destructive logging practices occuring within the Great Bear region by using drones to showcase the extent of the clear cutting in hopes this will bring more light to this serious issue.
 

